Event Management System (EMS) Documentation
Overview
The Event Management System (EMS) is a Java-based GUI application designed to simplify the organization and management of events. The system is connected to a MySQL database to handle the following functionalities:

Event Planning: Creation, editing, and deletion of events.
Attendee Registration: Registration, viewing, updating, and removal of event attendees.
Venue Management: Management of venues, including adding, editing, and deleting venue details.
The system ensures data integrity through validation checks and handles errors to ensure smooth user interaction.

Technologies Used
Java: Core programming language used to develop the system.
MySQL: Database Management System (DBMS) for storing event, attendee, and venue data.
JDBC: Java Database Connectivity used to interact with the MySQL database.
Swing: GUI components for creating the user interface.
Features
1. Event Planning Interface
The event planning interface allows users to manage events by providing options to:

Create New Events: Users can create new events by filling in fields such as event name, date, time, description, and organizer details.
Edit Events: Users can modify the details of existing events.
Delete Events: Users can remove events from the system.
Validation:

Ensures that event names are unique.
Ensures proper date and time formatting.
2. Attendee Registration Interface
The attendee registration interface allows users to register for events:

Register New Attendees: Attendees provide their name, email, contact number, and select an event.
View Registered Attendees: The system allows users to view the list of attendees for each event.
Update Attendee Information: Attendee details can be updated if needed.
Remove Attendees: Users can remove attendees from events.
Validation:

Ensures email and contact number formats are valid.
Prevents duplicate registrations using the same email or phone number.
3. Venue Management Interface
Venue management allows users to manage event venues:

Add New Venues: Users can add new venues with details like name, address, capacity, and availability.
Edit Venue Information: Users can update venue details.
Delete Venues: Venues can be deleted from the system.
4. MySQL Database Integration
The application is integrated with MySQL to handle data storage for events, attendees, and venues:

Database Structure: The system includes tables for storing event, attendee, and venue data.
CRUD Operations: The system performs Create, Read, Update, and Delete operations on the database.
Database Queries: SQL queries are used to retrieve, insert, update, and delete data.
Error Handling and Validation
The system ensures that data entered by users is validated for correctness before being processed:

Event Name Validation: Checks if the event name is unique.
Date and Time Validation: Ensures the event's date and time are in the correct format.
Email and Phone Number Validation: Ensures that the email and phone number entered are valid according to predefined patterns.
Duplicate Registration Prevention: Ensures that attendees cannot register multiple times using the same email or phone number.
If invalid data is entered or an error occurs (such as duplicate entries), appropriate error messages are displayed using JOptionPane.

Database Setup
MySQL Database: The system connects to a MySQL database using JDBC.
Tables:
Events Table: Stores event details (name, description, date, time, organizer).
Attendees Table: Stores attendee details (name, email, contact number, event ID).
Venues Table: Stores venue details (name, address, capacity, availability).
SQL Queries:
INSERT: Adds new records into the database (e.g., new event, new attendee).
SELECT: Retrieves records from the database (e.g., list of attendees, events).
UPDATE: Modifies existing records (e.g., updating event or attendee information).
DELETE: Removes records from the database (e.g., removing an event or attendee).
Example SQL Table Creation for Events:

sql
Copy code
CREATE TABLE Events (
    event_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    event_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    event_date DATE,
    event_time TIME,
    event_description TEXT,
    organizer_details VARCHAR(255)
);
User Interface
Layout
The interface is built using Swing components:

JFrame: Used as the main window for the application.
JPanel: Containers used to group components for each form (Event, Attendee, Venue).
JLabel: Used for labeling text fields.
JTextField: Allows user input for fields like event name, email, etc.
JButton: Used for actions like submitting data, editing, or deleting.
JComboBox: Used for selecting an event during attendee registration.
Navigation
Tabs or Buttons: The application can be navigated through different sections using tabbed panels or buttons, allowing users to switch between event management, attendee registration, and venue management.
Example Interface:
Event Management: A list of events displayed in a table with options to add, edit, or delete events.
Attendee Registration: A form where users can enter attendee details and select an event.
Venue Management: A form to add, edit, or delete venue details.
Setup Instructions
Requirements
Java Development Kit (JDK): Version 8 or higher.
MySQL Database: Version 5.7 or higher.
NetBeans IDE: Version 8.0 or higher.
Database Configuration
Install MySQL and create a database for the application.
Create the necessary tables (Events, Attendees, Venues) in the database using the SQL queries provided.
Update the DBConnection.java class with the correct database connection details.
Running the Application
Open the project in NetBeans IDE.
Ensure MySQL database is running.
Run the Java application using NetBeans.
Documentation of Working Features
Event Planning
Ability to create, edit, and delete events.
Validation to ensure unique event names and correct date/time formats.
Attendee Registration
Ability to register attendees with valid email and contact number.
Duplicate registration prevention.
View and remove registered attendees.
Venue Management
Ability to add, edit, and delete venues.
Error Handling
Display of appropriate error messages for invalid inputs.
Prevention of duplicate entries.
